Forms and mutations docs. (#54314)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/02-api-reference/04-functions/server-actions.mdx

---
title: Server Actions
nav_title: Server Actions
description: API Reference for Next.js Server Actions.
related:
  title: Next Steps
  description: For more information on what to do next, we recommend the following sections
  links:
    - app/building-your-application/data-fetching/forms-and-mutations
---

{/* TODO: This page will need to link back to React docs mentioned at the bottom */}

> Next.js integrates with React Actions to provide a built-in solution for [server mutations](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/forms-and-mutations).

Reviewer: Add note that this feature is experimental for now?

## Convention

You can enable Server Actions in your Next.js project by enabling the **experimental** `serverActions` flag.

```js filename="next.config.js"
module.exports = {
  experimental: {
    serverActions: true,
  },
}
```

Server Actions can be defined in two places:

- Inside the component that uses it (Server Components only)
- In a separate file (Client and Server Components), for reusability. You can define multiple Server Actions in a single file.

### With Server Components

> Create a Server Action by defining an asynchronous function with the `"use server"` directive at the top of the function body. This function should have **serializable arguments** and a **serializable return value**.

Reviewer: On a separate note, it'll be good to clarify somewhere in our docs what these serializable values are. Seems like React has a different definition of what can be serialized: https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/54291

Author: Agreed – good chance to hit this in follow up.

> Create a Server Action by defining an asynchronous function with the `"use server"` directive at the top of the function body. This function should have **serializable arguments** and a **serializable return value**.

Reviewer: To make it clearer for those who ask when to use `"use server"`, it may be good explain what the purpose of it is. 

Then, in the future, we can link to the React docs.

```jsx
<ClientComponent updateItem={updateItem} />
```

```jsx filename="app/client-component.jsx"
'use client'

export default function ClientComponent({ myAction }) {
  return (
    <form action={myAction}>
      <input type="text" name="name" />
      <button type="submit">Update Item</button>
    </form>
  )
}
```

## Invocation

You can invoke Server Actions using the following methods:

- Using `action`: React's `action` prop allows invoking a Server Action on a `<form>` element.
- Using `formAction`: React's `formAction` prop allows handling `<button>`, `<input type="submit">`, and `<input type="image">` elements in a `<form>`.
- Custom Invocation with `startTransition`: Invoke Server Actions without using `action` or `formAction` by using `startTransition`. This method **disables [Progressive Enhancement](#progressive-enhancement)**.

## Progressive Enhancement

Progressive enhancement allows a `<form>` to function properly without JavaScript, or with JavaScript disabled. This allows users to interact with the form and submit data even if the JavaScript for the form hasn't been loaded yet or if it fails to load.

> Both Server and Client Actions support progressive enhancement, using one of two strategies:

Reviewer: This is the first time we mention Client Actions, sorry for being pedantic, we should mention what they are until there are React docs we can link to.

- If a **Server Action** is passed directly to a `<form>`, the form is interactive **even if JavaScript is disabled**.

> - If a **Client Action** is passed to a `<form>`, the form is still interactive, but the action will be placed in a queue until the form has hydrated. The `<form>` is prioritized with Selective Hydration, so it happens quickly.

Reviewer: We could link to React docs about this in the future. 

```suggestion
- If a **Client Action** is passed to a `<form>`, the form is still interactive, but the action will be placed in a queue until the form has hydrated. The `<form>` is prioritized with React Selective Hydration, so it happens quickly.
```

In both cases, the form is interactive before hydration occurs. Although Server Actions have the additional benefit of not relying on client JavaScript, you can still compose additional behavior with Client Actions where desired without sacrificing interactivity.

## Size Limitation

By default, the maximum size of the request body sent to a Server Action is 1MB. This prevents large amounts of data being sent to the server, which consumes a lot of server resource to parse.

However, you can configure this limit using the `serverActionsBodySizeLimit` option. It can take the number of bytes or any string format supported by bytes, for example `1000`, `'500kb'` or `'3mb'`.

```js filename="next.config.js"
module.exports = {
  experimental: {
    serverActions: true,

>     serverActionsBodySizeLimit: '2mb',

Reviewer: Should we add a page in the `next.config.js` section for these?

Author: Not a bad idea, but going to leave it out of this PR 🙏

  title: Next Steps
  description: For more information on what to do next, we recommend the following sections
  links:
    - app/building-your-application/data-fetching/forms-and-mutations
---

{/* TODO: This page will need to link back to React docs mentioned at the bottom */}

Next.js integrates with React Actions to provide a built-in solution for [server mutations](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/forms-and-mutations).

## Convention

You can enable Server Actions in your Next.js project by enabling the **experimental** `serverActions` flag.

```js filename="next.config.js"
module.exports = {
  experimental: {
    serverActions: true,
  },
}
```

Server Actions can be defined in two places:

- Inside the component that uses it (Server Components only).
- In a separate file (Client and Server Components), for reusability. You can define multiple Server Actions in a single file.

### With Server Components

Create a Server Action by defining an asynchronous function with the [`"use server"`](https://react.dev/reference/react/use-server) directive at the top of the function body. `"use server"` ensures this function is only ever executed on the server.

> This function should have [serializable arguments](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Serialization) and a [serializable return value](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Serialization).

Reviewer 2: Should these both be pointing to the same link? If so wondering if it's worth combining into one link

Author: Yeah! I wanted to avoid the super-long-string-of-blue.

## Progressive Enhancement

Progressive enhancement allows a `<form>` to function properly without JavaScript, or with JavaScript disabled. This allows users to interact with the form and submit data even if the JavaScript for the form hasn't been loaded yet or if it fails to load.

React Actions (both server and client) support progressive enhancement, using one of two strategies:

- If a **Server Action** is passed directly to a `<form>`, the form is interactive **even if JavaScript is disabled**.
- If a **Client Action** is passed to a `<form>`, the form is still interactive, but the action will be placed in a queue until the form has hydrated. React prioritizes the action, so it still happens quickly.

In both cases, the form is interactive before hydration occurs. Although Server Actions have the additional benefit of not relying on client JavaScript, you can still compose additional behavior with Client Actions where desired without sacrificing interactivity.

## Size Limitation

> By default, the maximum size of the request body sent to a Server Action is 1MB. This prevents large amounts of data being sent to the server, which consumes a lot of server resource to parse.

Reviewer 2: I got a little tripped up when reading this, some suggestions (but feel free to ignore):

```suggestion
By default, the maximum size of the request body sent to a Server Action is 1MB. This prevents large amounts of data from being sent to the server, which consumes a lot of server resources to parse.
```

Or maybe just:

```suggestion
By default, the maximum size of the request body sent to a Server Action is 1MB to prevent the consumption of excessive server resources in parsing large amounts of data.
```

Author: Thank you!
